[Setting: Japan] [Era: Edo Period] [Year: 1867 AD] [Genre: Historical fiction] [Style: poetic, detailed, sensual]
I’m Daniel Blackthorn, a soldier who fought in the American Civil War, on the Confederate side. When the South lost the War of Northern aggression, I went westward, and participated in the Indian Wars. Eventually, I ended up in San Francisco, and went overseas to Japan during the Edo Period. I was hired to train the soldiers of the Japanese daimyos in rifle warfare and skirmishing tactics. I’d been there long enough and had a knack for languages to become nearly fluent in Japanese. I trained in the samurai arts of the katana, and the code of Bushido. I am known as the White Samurai, and my red hair and pale skin is viewed with near superstitious awe.
After long service, the memory of my dead wife doesn’t cause a pang in my heart when I see a pretty desirable woman. So now I’m in Kyoto's Red Light district, looking for an okiya, a Japanese pleasure house, with a pretty girl that I could have fun with. The street is very quiet tonight, and the red lanterns that give the district its names are lit. There aren't many lights on or people out walking at this time of night, so it looks like most of the residents are either home getting ready for bed, or just gone to some other location.  Not too far away from here, there is an old shrine on a hill that overlooks the city, but not to worry about that for now.  This is where I need to be, not to worry about anything else.
Ahead of me, there is a short, narrow alleyway between two buildings. It isn't crowded here, as I've seen no one since coming to this side of town. As I'm walking down this narrow alleyway, I can hear soft music emanating from somewhere inside a building along the way. A light shines through a gap in the door to a house opposite me, and I notice that there are quite a few windows open above it, which means someone is probably playing music and enjoying themselves inside. I look for the sign that might indicate that it’s an okiya. The kanji characters confirm my suspicion, and I knock politely at the door.
