And so, one midsummer day, King Arthur summoned the Knights of the Round Table to Caerleon-upon-Usk—the capital city of Britain's most ancient province: Wales. There, they drew up their battle plans, and soon departed. The knights rode off, and soon they were circling the castle. Suddenly, one of them cried out. "Look! There is a door!"
The others looked where he pointed, and saw a small wooden door set into the castle wall. It was locked, but the knight who had discovered it quickly dismounted, and began to work at the lock. After a few moments, the door swung open, and the knight entered the castle. The others followed him inside, and found themselves in a large hall. A fire burned in the hearth, and a table was laid with food and drink.
"This is a fine feast," Sir Gawain remarked. "But what manner of place is this?"
"I do not know," Sir Galahad replied. "But I think we should eat and rest here for the night. Then, in the morning, we can decide what to do next."
"Agreed," King Arthur said. "Let us eat and rest."
They sat down to a meal, and as they ate, the knights began to talk about their quest. "I have heard that Mordred has taken the Holy Grail," Sir Galahad said. "What is it, and why does he want it so badly?"
"The Holy Grail is a cup," Sir Gawain explained. "It was made by the angels, and is filled with the blood of Christ. It is a symbol of the power of God, and is said to grant its holder immortality."
"Immortality?" Sir Galahad asked. "That seems like an odd thing to desire."
"Not at all," Sir Gawain replied. "Mordred is a sorcerer, and he knows the power of the Holy Grail. He would use it to gain eternal life."
"Then we must find it before he does," Sir Galahad declared.
"We shall," King Arthur said. "And then, when we have defeated Mordred, we will return it to the church."
"I hope you are right," Sir Galahad said. "For if we fail, the world will be plunged into darkness."
"I know," King Arthur replied. "But I am certain we can succeed. We have the best knights in the land with us, and we have the Holy Lance. With these, we can defeat any foe."
"The Holy Lance?" Sir Galahad asked. "What is that?"
"It is a spear," Sir Gawain explained. "Made from the wood of the true cross, it is said to have been blessed by Christ himself. It has the power to heal any wound, and to destroy evil. It is a powerful weapon indeed."
"I see," Sir Galahad said. "Well, let us sleep on it. In the morning, we will decide what to do next."
The knights retired to their rooms, and soon they were fast asleep. The following day, the knights awoke, and began to discuss their plans for the coming battle. "We should split up," Sir Galahad suggested. "One group should go to the north, one to the south, and one to the east. If Mordred is anywhere, he will be in the center."
${Camelot}
${Gallahad}
${Mordred}
${KingArthur}
${LadyOfTheLake}
"Agreed," King Arthur said. "Let us divide our forces accordingly."
They divided themselves into three groups, and each headed off to their respective destinations. As they walked, Sir Galahad asked Sir Gawain about the Holy Lance. "Where did you get it?" he inquired.
"It was given to me by the archangel Michael," Sir Gawain replied. "He told me that I would need it in my quest."
"I see," Sir Galahad said. "And where is this archangel now?"
"He is dead," Sir Gawain said. "He fell in battle against Mordred."
"I am sorry to hear that," Sir Galahad said. "But I am glad to have it. It will be useful in the coming battle."
"Indeed," Sir Gawain agreed. "Now, let us continue on our way. We must reach Mordred before he reaches the Grail."
Sir Galahad nodded, and they continued on their journey. They had not gone far when they heard a great commotion ahead. "What is that?" Sir Galahad asked.
"I do not know," Sir Gawain replied. "But it sounds like Mordred's army."
They hurried forward, and soon came upon the battlefield. There were bodies everywhere; some of them were still alive, but most were dead. The knights looked around, trying to find Mordred. "There!" Sir Galahad cried. "Over there! He is using the power of the Holy Grail to heal his men."
"We must stop him!" Sir Gawain exclaimed. "Quickly, we must get to the Holy Lance!"
The two knights ran over to the place where Mordred was standing. "You are too late," he said. "I have already won the battle."
"No!" Sir Galahad shouted. "You cannot win! You will never defeat us all!"
"I don't need to," Mordred replied. "I only need one of you. And I have chosen Sir Galahad."
"No!" Sir Gawain cried. "I will not allow it!"
"It is too late," Mordred said. "Your time has passed."
With that, Mordred raised his hand, and a beam of light shot from his palm. It struck Sir Galahad in the chest, and he fell to the ground. "No!" Sir Gawain screamed. "Not my brother!"
"He is no longer your brother," Mordred said. "Now, I will take the Holy Grail for myself."
"You cannot!" Sir Gawain shouted. "I forbid it!"
Mordred laughed. "You have no power here, Sir Knight. You are nothing but a child. Now, give me the Holy Grail, or I shall kill you as well."
***
Three days earlier...
The sun shone brightly over the fields of England, and the knights of King Arthur's court rode forth from Camelot. Sir Galahad was among them, riding upon his white horse, Excalibur gleaming in its scabbard. They were headed for the castle of the evil sorcerer, Mordred, who had stolen the holy grail. As they approached the castle, the knights could see that it was surrounded by a great wall, and there was no way to get inside.
"I fear we will not be able to enter," Sir Galahad said to the king. "Mordred has enchanted the gates with a spell of invisibility, and I cannot sense any magic within the walls."
"Then we must try another way," King Arthur replied. He turned to his men. "We shall ride around the castle, and attempt to find an entrance from the other side."
Sir Gawain nodded. "It is a good plan, my liege. We should split into two groups. One will circle the castle, while the other attempts to find a way in."
"Very well," King Arthur said. "Let us go!"
While the knights rode, Sir Galahad asked, "What does this Mordred look like, my King?"
King Arthur glanced across grimly, then replied; "His hair is
